mr. Rockefeller could do at home with
the Nelsons you know we can still use
Ricky and David's going out to play and
he could ask him to try and get home
before the recession governor Stevenson
as bachelor father
and he could ask his daughter if she's
getting good grades which is his prime
concern as we all know and she could say
dad have you thought about steady work
how about leave it to Bieber with
senator Kennedy Leigha too eager and
good opening shot coming in senator
Kennedy coming with a slingshot and gang
going to the refrigerator for some milk
and peanut butter and jam offstage voice
of family what did you do today jack
well I got a haircut and talk to some
people got a lot of them pretty well
have you thought about what you want to
be Jack I want to be President
we know that I mean when you grow up
during the campaign war received a job
offer from an unlikely source Joseph
Kennedy asked Mort if he would
contribute jokes to the presidential
campaign speeches of his son Senator
John F Kennedy Mort took the gig so they
brought me to the the author is super
into offering to the Kennedys and and
then and the old man was naive enough to
think that I would get right in the line
I guess they didn't listen closely to
the act of what that act is of course
it's senator Kennedy and that brings up
the issue of faith so you must all
remember to be tolerant and judge a man
on his ability not his fate which is our
tradition and as Senator Kennedy himself
has often said as far as he's concerned
the hereafter is taken care of but
November is driving him out of his mind
I think the value of performers in a
campaign if I wanted to help a guy
become president I would endorse the guy
running against them I think that should
be the most help
so whenever I go to the studio when I go
to lunch in a commissary somebody jumps
up to me and says I'm more to have you
met have you meant Biden you'd really
like him you like Kennedy he's just like
Kennedy that's what they all say to me
say to get me you know I mean all right
then don't come over here say have you
seen Al Gore he's pretty attractive
these 39 years old you like Kennedy it's
just like Kimmy and you know and then
they'll look don't come along say have
you seen Michael Dukakis you like
Kennedy this guy's the Massachusetts
it's just like Kennedy so one day an
abject frustration lunch I said good
lord is there anybody in the Democratic
Party who isn't like Jack Kennedy and
somebody said yes Ted Kennedy
I can assure all of Maria who have
retold this confidence in me that I will
be worthy of your [ __ ] we will carry the
fight to the people in the path and we
cower in and defend the Constitution of
the United States so help you God I was
not an advocate I almost go to work for
guys and the proviso that you know when
they go to get an office I'll be left
alone to go do what I do
it's the one-eyed Jack's you know you're
the new sheriff and I'm still a bank
robber and I'd like to be left to my
free enterprise
you know what you're gonna do you're
gonna stay to supper now there's Matt I
tell you how just poking through don't
stop him and say hello man wouldn't look
too good me hanging around your town let
me worry about that let it think about
it cuz I'm still amazed how'd you know a
few remarks have gotten into the press
about what I've said about the new
frontiers I said earlier and a lot of
people haven't known what that make me
the Democrats as a matter of fact feel
completely misled by me because I used
to criticize President Eisenhower and
Richard Nixon and now I'm saying a few
words about the President Kennedy and
his administration now the Democrats are
coming backstage you know they come back
in committee because they're really you
know the ruling party now and they come
backstage and they say to me well you
just criticized President Kennedy and I
say yeah that's right that was me and
then they say Paul we we thought this
was what you wanted so I'd be forced to
say you didn't have to do it for me I
didn't want the rewards when Kennedy got
in I'm probably the only person that
ever worked from that didn't get any I
didn't want any patronage I don't want
any tax breaks I don't want any
invitations of the White House all I
wanted was to be left alone and a lot of
people didn't see it that way Jack came
back and he said how would you like to
take a picture with the president and
the concept is good it's just it's
bathed in that this aura they treat you
like a child how about that wouldn't you
like that I sure would
boy
so
so I had my picture taken with the
president he leaned out of a rocking
chair there and held his glasses it was
a moment in the conscience of man when
he's not working stop
and then I leaned over and the
photographer instructed me to raise the
fingers if we're discussing something in
and to make one of the remarks I'm
infamous for I think that was a phrase
so I did then I asked the president to
sign the picture and then he scrutinized
that for several minutes and he said
there he wasn't sure he could sign it
and he asked me if I thought there was
anything wrong with it and I looked at
it was the same thing you know spadeful
reproduction just as he would want it he
was leaning in and I was going like that
and then a president suggest that he
said I think you should be listening to
me
I
then I left I left the White House left
him in his office with the call director
as a call director and that globe with
the trouble spots of the world marked in
black he has a black globe next to his
dad it was very exciting
and then I want to know about him
because when I go back to California
where I live
too much this credit he liked people
that didn't agree with them and he could
learn something from his ego never stood
in the way of his curiosity the old man
reportedly was unhappy about what I said
that the president wasn't in 1959 I was
represented by a man from Beverly Hills
named Milton Evans in 1960 after the
election Evans returned and said to me
the old man is unhappy with what you're
saying if you'd only listen to reason
you would do much better and I informed
them that I had no grudge against the
president but it's my basic policy to do
jokes about the incumbent and he finally
told me that if I didn't get in line
which means kid Republicans only I would
think a house fell on me because the
Ambassador was very unhappy
I saw what's gonna happen can you be
specific he said you'll see
your gun days are over I was the
followers trying to curry favor and the
president he they come come and say
mort's knocking you but let me take care
of it here's a problem and I will solve
it and I remember and there turned it
almost come to me and told me I've
incurred his wrath but the fact of the
matter is he liked me and I liked him
and Lew Harris the full state called me
said whatever they tell you disregarded
he loves you he liked people of
independent spirit he worked out to be
pretty good I'm sure he was a
lightweight when he went in there but
you could see all the you could see all
around them and they yeah the
dissatisfaction people to say he's not
fun anymore
because he suddenly realized the
potential of presidency of the United
States and he decided to save America a
dangerous occupation is there any feet
up in there withdrawal from Vietnam and
oh you know when secretary McNamara
general Taylor came back they announced
it we would expect to withdraw a
thousand men from South Vietnam before
the end of the year there was optimism
when Kennedy was alive we thought
everything was possible we didn't have
any tangibles but boy did we feel good
and
that's all gone now the Social Democrats
in this country have a lot of guilt they
didn't stand up to Vietnam they didn't
stand up the encroachment of the
intelligence community and they they
walked away from Jack Kennedy the most
they could come up with and after he was
shot in the street like a dog was to say
he wasn't that good a president anyway
yeah they let me tell you he had a
strange group of friends remarkably
absent when he fell
I didn't even vote from I didn't want
anything to let you know jeopardize the
relationship in February 1967 more than
three years after Kennedy's death an
astounding story appeared in the New
Orleans States item Jim Garrison the
District Attorney of New Orleans was
conducting an investigation into a
conspiracy surrounding the assassination
of President Kennedy soon thereafter
garrison was quoted as saying my staff
and I solved the assassination weeks ago
at the time Saul was hosting a local
television show in LA that featured
satirical sketches and topical
interviews and the station said to me go
seal and then when I came back and said
he was the real thing he wasn't a fraud
I guess I broke my sacred contact with
them because then the Thunder came down
around my head I could have betrayed him
many times it would have been very
helpful to my career but I wouldn't he's
a very important American and I still
remember he was wearing a blue blazer
and I was just delighted to see him
because that always been in the nars but
I certainly hadn't expected him to
arrive in my front door
pretty soon more chimed in and said well
I didn't this come socially Jim hi I
want to know what I can do to help
and then as it turned out I found out
every minute because I thought he was a
no worthwhile quest it was trying to
focus attention on
till the president I didn't think we'd
get on with the business American that
we found out increasingly involved in
the investigation eventually moving to
New Orleans and becoming a deputized
member of Garrison's investigative staff
an assistant DA in Garrison's office at
the time was Andrew chambray
first of all everybody who saw me so
what is it what is this guy doing down
here honey what is a big star like Mort
Sahl
doing in New Orleans talking to Gaza
what is he looking for you people
thought that he was trying to to get
something I mean what did what did he
expect to gain from getting involved
with the assassination so so I guess you
might say that at first glance everybody
had that question but I think that it's
fair to say that very soon people found
out that the only real reason for Mort
being down here was that he actually
wanted to help with the investigation I
mean he wasn't Mort Sahl the Entertainer
he was a Mort saw the investigator and
he did what everybody else was doing
garrison gave him assignments and he
went out there and he did the
assignments he went all over the country
he interviewed witnesses he evaluated
evidence he introduced garrison to
people that maybe gasps and wouldn't
have gotten introduced to and I might
add he did at his own expense the
federal government's official
investigation into the assassination
commissioned by President Lyndon Johnson
and summarized in the 26 volume warrant
report concluded that Lee Harvey Oswald
was Kennedy's lone assassin but
Garrison's findings would lead him to a
different conclusion became clear to me
that his murder had been an operation of
our own intelligence community the CIA
covert operations
murder of John Kennedy had been a coup
d'etat because it was done in the Cold
War before the revisionists went to work
on this that's what he tried to do for
his pains
he was murdered as a peacemaker
he was murdered as a result the case was
suppressed there were people who thought
we shouldn't know it wasn't good for us
and I later read elaborate fictions that
the Mafia had killed President Kennedy
and the Castro had killed them I want to
tell you that so many of the aristocracy
in this country of the functional elite
in this country did so much to suppress
the truth in this case that there
wouldn't be room for the Mafia to get
near Jack Kennedy even if they were so
inclined I can tell you that this case
is think that this man killed the
president there's no question
this was an organized plot we there's no
one output here any other suspects
linked with Oswald once the government
announced that it had been done by a
lone assassin the media in an assembled
ranks without an exception adopted this
and viciously attacked anybody who
raised any questions at all
Mort always did say that he that he
thought every single fact about the the
investigation of the assassination of
the president should be open should be
given to the public no matter what it is
you know just let the chips fall where
they may but every single thing should
be told to the public hi at that time I
actually read the Warren Report on the
stage and I read the more ludicrous
aspects of it in other words I shall
hold up a picture of Oswald being shot
by Ruby what do you say to the audience
is funny how did Ruby get in to shoot
him no you say here's a photo of Oswald
being shot while I was being guarded by
a hundred and twenty three members of
the Dallas police force on one hundred
and twenty four if we count Ruby that's
the way you do it or you read the
testimony he he read some piece in the
Warren Report he made fun of him and
they were funny there were some funny
things said but I got to a point where
every time I'd hear Kennedy's name
mentioned when he was on stage I just
freeze up because I knew that people
would say now good I heard you got all
that Kennedy's again you I mean all of a
sudden you've got this guy who gained a
worldwide reputation for being
controversial he gets involved with an
investigation of Jim Garrison on the
assassination and all of a sudden
everybody's saying you better stay away
from that guy because that guy is really
run amuck he and Garrison have run amok
they're so involved in that case that
Mort is not funny anymore
he's just not funny but of course that
was hard to believe because he was as
funny as ever bill moyers he says I the
warrant is my guy over there I said how
do you think history will remember
Warren you know what decision he says I
think for the job he did in Dallas
so I said you mean a Warren Commission
he says yes wasn't that terrific did you
read it I said yeah I read it
says did you like it now we're talking
about no as one would discuss any other
work of fiction
I said no I didn't like it he says what
part didn't you like I said I didn't
believe it so he starts to laugh he says
I suppose you're one of those conspiracy
guys so I said yeah you know there is no
truth to the rumor however I can assure
you that there's a sign inside the CIA
building that said be careful of the
government you overthrow it maybe your
own little bit he was like a dog with a
bone because he was outraged and he was
incensed and he couldn't in his heart
could understand why people just wanted
to let it go I think he was he was
shocked not only at what happened as the
rest of us were but at how many people
in the name of wanting to put it behind
us turned vicious towards the people
that didn't it that's probably a
national psychosis that we subscribe to
and more it runs a shreds the delicate
line between entertaining and informing
he is not exactly a Jeremiah but he is a
person who tries to hold up a mirror and
I think people tend to resent it we wear
cultural amnesiacs we don't like news to
hang on he's been a victim of the times
in that regard I've always said that in
the real sense Mort Sahl
probably paid a higher price than all
the rest of us involved with the
investigation because I know it cost
them jobs it cost them money they
attacked his reputation I had to fight
back to try to regain his reputation it
affected his career but no matter what
would happen he would just go on he
never backed up he never quitting it he
just I assume II sweated out a pretty
long period in 1967 Martin was scheduled
to open on Broadway in a show comprised
of sketches and monologues and simply
entitled Mort Sahl a few days before the
scheduled
the show was canceled Mort came to San
Francisco and held a press conference at
the hungry eye where he read from a
letter he had written to the show's
producer I received an order from you by
telephone at 3:00 a.m. Sunday November
26 to deliver at 5:30 p.m. that date a
finished manuscript for a sketch based
upon the findings of the Warren
Commission to last for at least 35
minutes I complied I did as I was
instructed I was then informed by the
director in your presence this show has
too much material and were not
sufficient stenographic help to fight
the scripts for death distribution for
the actus therefore the sketch was
dropped from the production at that
moment it was a sketch about the Warren
Commission it was the basis of the
Warren Commission and the media and how
the how the president's death was
investigated by the Warren Commission
and it was based the entire sketch I
really take no credit for it it's quoted
from the testimony I thought that be
good for the audience it's quarter for
the testimony it is not for me it's
actual government testimony and it takes
place is a kind of three-ring circus
it's in three rings television
newspapers and the Warren Commission and
it's kind of fun in the end of it we say
the the torch is passed and we see a
fella going into the archives with some
matches but that's not sure I want to
make one point here though I'm not
accusing anybody by the way I make this
explicitly not accusing anybody
censoring that sketch they continued to
tell me that they wanted that to be main
source do a sketch and Warren Commission
do a sketch they kept requesting it what
is my personal ways a friend of mine you
know it's a good friend of mine I mean
as a guy I think I think that you know
it's it's gonna gonna be very tough to
resolve anything here I think he's got
major forces against them he's Bob
Kennedy against him he has the president
against them and he has the CIA against
me and he has a portion of a press
against them and he's got the guilt of
the American people it looks rough I
don't think he's got an easy course if
we do believe though that the truth is
the truth and it must come out with they
will scour our souls it will come out
like a man with something on your mind
why don't you tell the people the truth
for a change what is the truth
suggesting Pilate and would not stay for
an answer people this country pick up
their papers in one of the raid you're
an honorary stooge you ought to be shown
up have a drink senator little taste
murder the truth
hey 70 100 years from now nobody's know
the difference they wanted me to go away
I found that when I got to be a movie
writer you know I'd come in and I I tell
the idea for a movie in her they say all
right why don't I give you $45,000 and
you go away and write this and then its
partner would say why don't we give 90
thousand and just have him go away do
you have an agent now no and I can't get
one no one will no one will have the
last agent I had was Freddy fields was
you know a very able fellow creative
management he said to me no agent can
help you in the position you're in did
he give you a reason he said there's
just too much resistance there's
interference in this resistance those
are the words my agent went to a studio
with me for a series a couple of months
ago and got the answer don't bring his
name up in this office oh he went to one
of the three major networks and the
answer was never not only never but an
obsessive indication that I was suicidal
because of the kind of people I go after
and what I say so the point is that
maybe you know if I am maybe I am I
always was how do we explain the
acceptance initially in the Lord's
you're entitled to any opinion of me
except surprise I hate to say it but I
think this is an intense reaction to a
nightclub comedian you know what if my
reward was for long things the Liberals
would write in the paper he ain't funny
anymore and I'll cut it even if you are
simply passe lost in them I don't think
you'll find that by the attendance
figures in any of the engagements but
the irony is that you can't go back to
work do you think if you change your
material you'd have better luck no sir
no sir
because the audience shows no indication
the audience is interested in what's
happening you'll know soon enough if
you're not saying what the public wants
there's this vast silence like a jury if
you don't reach an audience the American
people can't hire you the nightclub
owners and the television executives
hire you well that's true they're the
arbiters but I think you've got to get
through to the audience that's one of
the good things about the nightclub
the sort was I should say past tense I
suppose but you've got to stay with the
people if you can wait it out maybe you
can beat it I don't know I know it
sounds illogical but you've got to raise
a flag of hope and a sea of evidence
that's against it
I guess this is just another lost cause
mr. Payne
and the harvest of what we found came
out repeatedly afterward in Watergate
and the iran-contra affair the whole
idea of shadow government and if people
who think they know better what's good
for Americans than what Americans milk
garrisons investigation culminated in
the trial of a man named clay Shaw from
the DEA charged with conspiring to kill
the president
when Shaw was acquitted in March of 1969
there were those who interpreted the
verdict as a full vindication of the
Warren Report I think it was running for
cover
I think when the right-wing opened up
when they killed Kennedy when they
killed the kids of Kent State one May
they reminded everybody that played for
hardball everybody ran like they were
surprised and the country began to
unravel
they stopped in Vietnam and it's five
six
this is a great era for demonstrating
and picketing and although the other
generation says in effect I didn't raise
my boy to carry a sign there they are
and they are everywhere I was recently
on Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the
White House and these are a few of the
signs I saw it random Hitler is alive -
- in the White House make love not war
war is a basic industry invest your son
one fellow in an interesting sign it was
a long silence tall and it said Hubert
Humphrey is straight from his original
commitment as a liberal and as a
founding father of the ad a and by
merchandising a war about which he has
no conviction may have developed into a
self seeking opportunist in the process
that fellow was arrested carrying that
sign and it was charged with passing
federal secrets students in California
March with signs they say things in
Berkeley like God isn't dead he just
doesn't want to get involved or tomorrow
has been cancelled due to a lack of
interest and at that sign this sign got
all of this by the way will be seen on
ABC's Wide World of Sports on Saturday I
imagine the Columbia University student
body versus the New York City police the
winner going to the lieth bowl in
Berkeley California
this is Mort Sahl in Malibu California
that's what I told Mike Wallace you'll
be refused to ask me what I meant he
said to me do you think that you were
courageous and working on a Kennedy
assassination I said no the most
courageous act that that men embark upon
us to love women in irrational what I
meant then live in LA all the time now
and so all the girls that go out with
our actresses and other female
impersonators
they won't give up now I was out last
night as luck would have it I don't go
out much you know because I'm busy
saving America that's right
the last four girls I went out with fell
asleep listening to the Warren Report